 
Interviewer: Today we have Elon Musk. Elon, thank you for joining us.Elon: Thanks for having me.Interviewer: So, we want to spend the time today talking about your view of thefuture and what people should work on. To start off, could you tell us, youfamously said, when you were younger, there were five problems that youthought were most important for you to work on. If you were 22 today, what wouldthe five problems that you would think about working on be?Elon: Well, first of all, I think if somebody is doing something that is useful to therest of society, I think that's a good thing. Like, it doesn't have to change theworld. If you make something that has high value to people... And frankly, even ifit's something, if it's like just a little game or some improvement in photo sharingor something, if it has a small amount of good for a large number of people, Ithink that's fine. Stuff doesn't need to change the world just to be good. But interms of things that I think are most like to affect the future of humanity, I think AIis probably the single biggest item in the near-term that's likely to affect humanity.So, it's very important that we have the advent of AI in a good way. It's somethingthat, if you could look into the crystal ball and to the future, you would like thatoutcome because it is something that could go wrong, as we've talked aboutmany times. And so, we really need to make sure it goes right. So that's AI,working on AI and making sure it's great future. That's the most important thing, Ithink, right now, the most pressing item. Then, I would say anything to do withgenetics. If you can actually solve genetic diseases, if you can prevent dementiaor Alzheimer's or something like that with genetic reprograming, that would bewonderful. So I think genetics might be the sort of second most important item. And then, I think, having a high-bandwidth interface to the brain. We're currentlybandwidth-limited. We have a digital tertiary self in the form of out emailcapabilities, our computers, phones, applications. We're practically superhuman.But we're extremely bandwidth-constrained in that interface between the cortexand that tertiary digital form of yourself. And helping solve that bandwidthconstraint would be, I think, very important in the future as well. Yeah.Interviewer: So one of the, I think, most common questions I hear ambitiousyoung people ask is, "I want to be the next Elon Musk. How do I do that?"Obviously, the next Elon Musk will work on very different things than you did. Butwhat have you done or what did you do when you were younger that you thinksort of set you up to have a big impact?Elon: Well, first of all, I should say that I do not expect to be involved in all thesethings. So, the five things that I thought about at the time in college, so quite along time ago, 25 years ago, making life multi-planetary, accelerating thetransmission to sustainable energy, the Internet broadly speaking, and then
 
genetics, and AI. I didn't expect to be involved in all those things. Actually, at thetime in college, I sort of thought helping with electrification of cars was how itwould start out. That's actually what I worked on as an intern was advanced ultra-capacitors, to see if there would be a breakthrough relative to batteries for energystorage in cars. And then, when I came out to go to Stanford, that's what I wasgoing to be doing my grad studies on was working on advanced energy storagetechnologies for electric cars. And I put that on hold to start an Internet companyin '95 because there does seem to be a time for particular technologies whenthey're at a steep point in the inflection curve. And I didn't want to do a PHD atStanford and watch it all happen. I wasn't entirely certain that the technology I'dbe working on would succeed. You can get a doctorate on many things thatultimately do not a have practical bearing on the world. And I really was justtrying to be useful. That's the optimization. It's like, "What can I do that wouldactually be useful?"Interviewer: Do you think people that want to be useful today should get PhDs?Elon: Mostly not.Interviewer: What is the way to be useful?Elon: Some yes, but mostly not.Interviewer: How should someone figure out how they can be most useful?Elon: Well, I think you make some estimates of, whatever this thing is that you'retrying to create, what would be the utility delta compared to the current state ofthe art times how many people it would affect. So that's why I think havingsomething that makes a big difference but affects sort of small to moderatenumber of people is great, as is something that makes even a small differencebut affects a vast number of people. Like, the area under the curve.Interviewer: Yeah, the area under the curve.Elon: Yeah, exactly. I mean, the area under the curve would actually be roughlysimilar for those two things, so it's actually really about just trying to be useful andmatter.Interviewer: When you're trying to estimate probability of success, so this thingwill be really useful, good area under the curve...I guess to use the example ofSpaceX, when you made the go-decision that you were actually going to do that,this was kind of a very crazy thing at the time.Elon: Very crazy. For sure. They were not shy of saying that. But I agreed withthem that it was quite crazy. Crazy...if the objective was to achieve the best risk-adjusted return, starting off a company is insane. But that was not my objective.
 
I'd soon come to a conclusion that if something didn't happen to improve rockettechnology, we'd be stuck on earth forever. And the big aerospace companieshad just had no interest in radical innovation. All they wanted to do was try tomake their old technology slightly better every year. And in fact, sometimes itwould actually get worse. Particularly in rockets, it was pretty bad. In '69 we wereable to go to the moon with the Saturn 5. And then the space shuttle could onlytake people to low-earth orbit. And then the space shuttle retired. And that trendbasically trends to zero.People sometimes think technology just automatically gets better every year butactually it doesn't. It only gets better if smart people work like crazy to make itbetter. That's how any technology actually gets better. By itself, technology, ifpeople don't work at it, actually will decline. Look at the history of civilizations,many civilizations. Look at, say, ancient Egypt, where they were able to buildthese incredible pyramids and then they basically forgot how to build pyramids. And even hieroglyphics. They forgot how to read hieroglyphics. Or if you look atRome and how they were able to build these incredible roadways and aqueductsand indoor plumbing, they forgot how to do all of those things. There are manysuch examples in history. So I think we should always bear in mind that entropyis not on your side.Interviewer: One thing I really like about you is you are unusually fearless andwilling to go in the face of other people telling you something is crazy. And I knowa lot of pretty crazy people. You still stand out. Where does that come from orhow do you think about making a decision when everyone tells you, "This is acrazy idea?" Where do you get the internal strength to do that?Elon: Well, first of all I'd say I actually think I feel fear quite strongly. So it's not asthough I just have the absence of fear. I feel it quite strongly. There are just timeswhen something is important enough that you believe in it enough that you do itin spite of fear.Interviewer: So, speaking of important things.Elon: It's like, people shouldn't think, well, "I feel fear about this and therefore Ishouldn't do it," it's normal to feel fear. Like, you'd have to have somethingmentally wrong with you if you don't feel fear.Interviewer: So, you just feel it and let the importance of it drive you to do itanyway?Elon: Yeah. You know, actually something that can be helpful is fatalism, to somedegree. If you just accept the probabilities, then that diminishes fear. Whenstarting SpaceX, I thought the odds of success were less than 10% and I justaccepted that actually probably I would just lose everything. But that maybewould make some progress. If we could just move the ball forward, even if we
 
died, maybe some other company could pick up the baton and keep moving itforward, so we'd still do some good. Yeah, same with Tesla. I thought the odds ofa car company succeeding were extremely low.Interviewer: What do you think the odds of the Mars colony are at this point,today?Elon: Well, oddly enough, I actually think they're pretty good.Interviewer: So when can I go? If I can come back, I want to come back.Elon: I hope I'm not in some realm of self-delusion here. But look at it this way: atthis point, I'm certain there is a way. I'm certain that success is one of possibleoutcomes for establishing a self-sustaining Mars colony, a growing Mars colony.I'm certain that is possible. Whereas until maybe a few years ago, I was not surethat success was even one of the possible outcomes. In terms of having somemeaningful number of people going to Mars, I think this is potentially somethingthat can be accomplished in about 10 years. Maybe sooner, maybe nine years. Ineed to make sure that SpaceX doesn't die between now and then and that Idon't die, or if I do die, that someone takes over who will continue that.Interviewer: You shouldn't go on the first launch.Elon: Yeah, exactly. The first launch will be robotic anyway.Interviewer: I want to go, except for the Internet latency.Elon: Yeah, the internet latency would be pretty significant. Mars is roughly 12light minutes from the sun and Earth is 8 light minutes. So, the closest approachto Mass is four light minutes away. The furthest approach is 20. A little morebecause you can't sort of talk directly through the sun.Interviewer: Speaking of really important problems, AI. You have been outspokenabout AI. Could you talk about what you think the positive future for AI looks likeand how we get there?Elon: Okay, I mean I do want to emphasize that this is not really something that Iadvocate or this is not prescriptive. This is simply, hopefully, predictive. Becauseyou will hear some say, well, like this is something that I want to occur instead ofthis is something I think that probably is the best of the available alternatives. Thebest of the available alternatives that I can come up with, and maybe someoneelse can come up with a better approach or better outcome, is that we achievedemocratization of AI technology. Meaning that no one company or small set ofindividuals has control over advanced AI technology. I think that's verydangerous. It could also get stolen by somebody bad, like some evil dictator orcountry could send their intelligence agency to go steal it and gain control. It just
 
becomes a very unstable situation, I think, if you've got any incredibly powerful AI. You just don't know who's going to control that.So it's not that I think that the risk is that the AI would develop a will of its ownright off the bat. I think the concern is that someone may use it in a way that isbad. Or even if they weren't going to use it in a way that's bad but somebodycould take it from them and use it in a way that's bad, that, I think, is quite a bigdanger. So I think we must have democratization of AI technology to make itwidely available. And that's the reason that obviously you, me, and the rest of theteam created OpenAI was to help spread out AI technology so it doesn't getconcentrated in the hands of a few. But then, of course, that needs to becombined with solving the high-bandwidth interface to the cortex.Interviewer: Humans are so slow.Elon: Humans are so slow. Yes, exactly. But we already have a situation in ourbrain where we've got the cortex and the limbic system... The limbic system iskind of a...I mean, that's the primitive brain. That's kind of like your instincts andwhatnot. And the cortex is the thinking upper part of the brain. Those two seem towork together quite well. Occasionally, your cortex and limbic system willdisagree, but they...Interviewer: It generally works pretty well.Elon: Generally works pretty well, and it's like rare to find someone who...I've notfound someone wishes to either get rid of the cortex or get rid of the limbicsystem.Interviewer: Very true.Elon: Yeah, that's unusual. So I think if we can effectively merge with AI byimproving the neural link between your cortex and your digital extension ofyourself, which already, like I said, already exists, just has a bandwidth issue. And then effectively you become an AI-human symbiote. And if that then iswidespread, with anyone who wants it can have it, then we solve the controlproblem as well, we don't have to worry about some evil dictator AI because weare the AI collectively. That seems like the best outcome I can think of.Interviewer: So, you've seen other companies in their early days that start smalland get really successful. I hope I never get this asked on camera, but how doyou think OpenAI is going as a six-month-old company?Elon: I think it's going pretty well. I think we've got a really talented group atOpenAI.Interviewer: Seems like it.
 
Elon: Yeah, a really talented team and they're working hard. OpenAI is structuredas a 501(c)(3) non-profit. But many non-profits do not have a sense of urgency.It's fine, they don't have to have a sense of urgency, but OpenAI does because Ithink people really believe in the mission. I think it's important. And it's aboutminimizing the risk of existential harm in the future. And so I think it's going well.I'm pretty impressed with what people are doing and the talent level. Andobviously, we're always looking for great people to join in the mission.Interviewer: It looks like close to 40 people now. It's quite a lot. All right. Just afew more questions before we wrap up. How do you spend your days now? Whatdo you allocate most of your time to?Elon: My time is mostly split between SpaceX and Tesla. And of course, I try tospend a part of every week at OpenAI. So I spend basically half a day at OpenAImost weeks. And then I have some OpenAI stuff that happens during the week.But other than that, it's really SpaceX and Tesla.Interviewer: What do you do when you're at SpaceX and Tesla? What does yourtime look like there?Elon: Yes, it's a good question. I think a lot of people think I must spend a lot oftime with media or on businessy things. But actually almost all my time, like 80%of it, is spent on engineering and design. Engineering and design, so it'sdeveloping next-generation product. That's 80% of it.Interviewer: You probably don't remember this. A very long time ago, many,many, years, you took me on a tour of SpaceX. And the most impressive thingwas that you knew every detail of the rocket and every piece of engineering thatwent into it. And I don't think many people get that about you.Elon: Yeah. I think a lot of people think I'm kind of a business person orsomething, which is fine. Business is fine. But really it's like at SpaceX, GwynneShotwell is Chief Operating Officer. She manages legal, finance, sales, andgeneral business activity. And then my time is almost entirely with theengineering team, working on improving the Falcon 9 and our Dragon spacecraftand developing the Mars Colonial architecture. At Tesla, it's working on the Model3 and, yeah, so I'm in the design studio, take up a half a day a week, dealing withaesthetics and look-and-feel things. And then most of the rest of the week is justgoing through engineering of the car itself as well as engineering of the factory.Because the biggest epiphany I've had this year is that what really matters is themachine that builds the machine, the factory. And that is at least two orders ofmagnitude harder than the vehicle itself.Interviewer: It's amazing to watch the robots go here and these cars just happen.
 
Elon: Yeah. Now, this actually has a relatively lower level of automationcompared to what the Gigafactory will have and what Model 3 will have.Interviewer: What's the speed on the line of these cars?Elon: Actually our speed on the line is incredibly slow. I think we are...in terms ofthe extra velocity of vehicles on the line, it's probably about, including both X andS, it's maybe five centimeters per second. This is very slow.Interviewer: And what would you like to get to?Elon: I'm confident we can get to at least one meter per second. So, a 20-foldincrease.Interviewer: That would be very fast.Elon: Yeah. At least. I mean, I think quite a...one meter per second, just to putinto perspective, is a slow walk or a medium-speed walk. A fast walk could beone and a half meters per second. And then the fastest humans can run over 10meters per second.
5
